OpenSearch Technical Steering Committee

## Meeting Minutes 

#### 14 October 2025 / 8:00 AM PT

## Attendees

Present: Kris Freedain, Nils Bandener, Andrew Ross, Karsten Schnitter, Pallavi Priyadarshini, Amitai Stern, Sam Herman, Eric Pugh, Yakun Li, Prudhvi Godithi, Mikhail Stepura, Jonah Kowall, Michael Froh

Absent:  Shubham Gupta, Bryan Burkholder, Yupeng Fu

Guests: n/a

## AGENDA

Welcome new TSC members

### New

**10 October Meeting**


* **Chair Election** (Kris Freedain - Facilitator) - [Chair-Election](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/blob/main/ELECTIONS.md#chair-election) 
	
	- Pallavi Priyadarshini nominated Andrew Ross; highlighting his maintainership in the project, OpenSearch & Lucene knowledge, and experience with the TSC
		- Group wholeheartedly agreed and voted him in as the Chair for this year
		- Congratulations Andrew

* **TSC Overview** (Kris Freedain - Facilitator)

	- Walk through of how meetings run
	- Documents to know / How to connect with others
	- Now [MAINTAINERS](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md) & [MEMBERS](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/blob/main/MEMBERS.md) in the [technical-steering](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering) repo
	- Overview of upcoming OpenSearchCons & other events - request to help promote & submit to CFPs as project leaders
	- **Action Items** (Kris)
		- Add new members to private Slack channel

* **[RFC] In-Place Updating Segments with jVector Graphs** (Sam)
	- [In-Place Updating Segments with jVector Graphs](https://github.com/opensearch-project/opensearch-jvector/issues/169)
		- Sam gave the group an overview of the RFC - requested input from the group	
	- **Action Items** (TSC & Kris)
		- Team to provide input on RFC
		- Sam & Kris will work with social team to help promote with the community for input



