OpenSearch Technical Steering Committee

## Meeting Minutes 

#### 14 May 2025 / 8:00 AM PT

## Attendees

Present: Kris Freedain, Andriy Redko, Andrew Ross, Bryan Burkholder, Karsten Schnitter, Yakun Li, Pallavi Priyadarshini, Amitai Stern, Anandhi Bumstead, Jonah Kowell, Sam Hermann, Daniel Doubrovkin

Absent:  Eli Fisher, Shubham Gupta, Austin Lee, 

Guests: Michelle Roth (Linux Foundation)

## AGENDA

### Prior Meeting Follow-up / Action Items

**April 9th Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/28](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/28) 

* **[PROPOSAL] Special Interest Groups / Build Interest Group** (Andrew Ross, & _guest_ Peter Zhu (Amazon)) - [.github/issues/304](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/issues/304) & [technical-steering/pull/31](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/pull/31)
	- Feedback from Michael Froh and Saurabh Singh - repo requests are coming in - [SIG](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/tree/main/special-interest-groups/build-interest-group) is working as designed
    - Closed/complete


### New

**May 14th Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/33](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/33) 

**[PROPOSAL] Fund additional push with Documentation** (Anandhi Bumstead)
* Review plan for funding ask to GB
	* Work will concentrate on areas that may have gaps
	* Discussion
		* methods, tools to be used (LLM and/or human)
	* Concern
		* Observability plugin / Dashboards: if a technology or repo has influx of change, how does the request prepare for this
		* This effort is to fix incomplete docs & fill gaps
	* Vote - Ask for this to move forward
		* Result - Yes
* **Action Item**: 
	* Pallavi Priyadarshini will update the ask before Anandhi goes to GB


**3.0 update - review** (Andrew Ross)
* Released May 6th - on time 
* Reports of small bugs coming in show the community is using it (and the developers are working to resolve them)
* Another recent highlight / slightly related - [Core added two MAINTAINERS](https://github.com/opensearch-project/OpenSearch/blob/main/MAINTAINERS.md)
	* [Pan Guixin](https://github.com/bugmakerrrrrr)
	* [Yupeng Fu](https://github.com/yupeng9)
	* Congratulations to both of them

**[PROPOSAL] Maintain an opensearch prometheus exporter** (Community) - [technical-steering/issues/35](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/35)
	* Discussion around how TSC takes action on requests like this
	* Who can maintain this
* **Action Item**:
	* Karsten Schnitter & Sam Herman will talk to their teams about becoming MAINTAINERS of this

**OpenSearchCon Europe - review** (Kris Freedain)
* Huge success with a healthy increase of attendees YOY
* Positive feedback from the community
* Working with Linux Foundation events team helped make this the success it was
* [Photos available](https://flickr.com/photos/opensearchproject/albums/72177720326000807) & [Session recordings available](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLzgr9zSpws16qm6E3OsNqzR8iFA3eScak)

