OpenSearch Technical Steering Committee

## Meeting Minutes 

#### 09 April 2025 / 8:00 AM PT

## Attendees

Present: Kris Freedain, Andriy Redko, Andrew Ross, Bryan Burkholder, Karsten Schnitter, Shubham Gupta, Yakun Li

Absent:  Eli Fisher, Austin Lee, Pallavi Priyadarshini, Amitai Stern, Anandhi Bumstead, Jonah Kowell, Sam Hermann, Daniel Doubrovkin, 

Guests: Peter Zhu (AWS), Vanessa Valderrama (Linux Foundation), Michelle Roth (LF), John Mertic (LF)

## AGENDA

### Prior Meeting Follow-up / Action Items

**March 12th Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/21](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/21) 

* **Action Item: Critical number of maintainers (1 active, 1 non-active)**: (Andriy Redko) - [technical-steering/issues/24](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/24)
    - Andriy and Andrew spoke - Andrew has agreed to step up as a second _active_ maintainer on both repos
	- Andriy will up the maintainers files, permissions, and close out this issue

* **Action Item: Feedback from community - publish meeting minutes**: (Kris Freedain) - [technical-steering/issues/25](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/25)
    - Meeting minutes are now being published
	- Closed

* **Action Item: Feedback from community - mailing list / README update**: (Kris Freedain) - [technical-steering/issues/26](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/26)
    - mailing list is live: TSC@lists.opensearch.foundation
	- Kris will submit a PR to update the readme with 'how to contact tsc' = email or open an issue by April 11


### New

**April 9th Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/28](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/28) 

**[PROPOSAL] Special Interest Groups / Build Interest Group** (Andrew Ross, & _guest_ Peter Zhu (Amazon))
* Based on feedback from the initial proposal: **Standardized Process for New Repository Creation** [.github#296](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/issues/296), Andrew and Peter created an updated doc here: [OpenSearch Special Interest Groups (SIGs)](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wox6spcZ0tmt6r8mG2hvTvmywUVso3EHvRDhRXs2qCU)
* **Action Items**: 
	* Andrew & Peter will create two PRs in the technical-steering repo
	* Will note to keep open for 2 weeks for TSC feedback
	* Near the end of that 2 weeks, Kris will create LFX PCC survey for final vote (approval/non-approval)
	* If approved, PRs will be merged & Peter Zhu will reference process/SIG in new **Add New Standardized GitHub Repo / Publication Targets Creation Process in #296 as Request Template**[.github/pull/306](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/pull/306)


**3.0 update** (Andrew Ross)
* Updated the TSC
	* 3.0.0-alpha1 released on March 18 - [download/release notes available](https://opensearch.org/versions/opensearch-3-0-0-alpha1.html)
	* 3.0.0-beta1 progressing - release window on [/releases](https://opensearch.org/releases.html) page

