OpenSearch Technical Steering Committee

## Meeting Minutes 

#### 11 June 2025 / 8:00 AM PT

## Attendees

Present: Kris Freedain, Andriy Redko, Andrew Ross, Bryan Burkholder, Karsten Schnitter, Pallavi Priyadarshini, Amitai Stern, Anandhi Bumstead, Jonah Kowall, Sam Hermann, Daniel Doubrovkin, Shubham Gupta, Yupeng Fu

Absent:  Eli Fisher, Austin Lee, Yakun Li

Guests: Michelle Roth (Linux Foundation), Yasmeen Waqar (LF)

## AGENDA

### Prior Meeting Follow-up / Action Items

**May 14th Meeting** - [Agenda](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/28) - [Minutes](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/blob/main/meeting-minutes/2025/2025-05-14-minutes.md)

**Fund additional push with Documentation** (Anandhi Bumstead)
* Funding ask to GB
	* Work will concentrate on areas that may have gaps
		* Result - Not at this time. Will explore other options.

### New

**June 11th Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/38](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/38) 

- **Follow up: [PROPOSAL] Maintain an opensearch prometheus exporter** (Community) - [technical-steering/issues/35](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/35)
	- Maintainers on current plugin '[Aiven-Open/prometheus-exporter-plugin-for-opensearch](https://github.com/Aiven-Open/prometheus-exporter-plugin-for-opensearch)' are not working on it any further
	- Current plan is to fork and assign our own maintainers
	- Potential list of maintainers on-board with this at AWS, SAP
	* **Action Item**:
		* Anandhi has instructed Shenoy Pratik Gurudatt to work with Kris Freedain on next steps to fork. 

* **[PROPOSAL] Forming OpenSearch Observability SIG** (group) - [technical-steering/issues/40](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/40) 
	- Read / review of issue
	- Vote
		- Approved that an Observability SIG is needed. 
		- *May be too broad as defined in charter.*
	- Nominations and final list being discussed
	- **Action Items**
		- Kris Freedain: reach out to [Orcun Berkem](https://github.com/oberkem) and have them submit a PR with the Charter doc for the TSC and others to comment on specific areas and discuss scope. 

* **OpenSearchCon India - review** (Pallavi Priyadarshini/Kris Freedain)

	- Pallavi delivered the keynote with Sreedhar Gade from Freshworks
	- Positive feedback from the community
	- First year this was a paid event / Linux Foundation event - great turnout
	- [Photos available](https://www.flickr.com/photos/opensearchproject/albums/72177720326809843) - Session recordings available next week


* **[PROPOSAL] Forming OpenSearch Search SIG** (Pallavi Priyadarshini)
	- during the discussion of the Observability SIG, Pallavi proposed the potential of a Search SIG
	- Could be useful to further the capabilities and additional interactions for the platform
	- **Action Items**
		- Pallavi Priyadarshini: draft a proposal/charter for discussion

* **SIG vs TAG** [Jonah Kowall]
	- Jonah brought up CNCF had renamed their SIGs (Special Interest Group) to TAGs (Technical Advisory Group) 
	- Multiple reasons: naming better alligned with goals & TAG wording was more inclusive
	- [cncf/toc/issues/1527](https://github.com/cncf/toc/issues/1527) - for some of the background & learnings
	- **Action Items**
		- Jonah Kowall and Kris Freedain to look through CNCF reasoning and consider proposal to rename
