OpenSearch Technical Steering Committee

## Meeting Minutes 

#### 12 March 2025 / 7:00 AM PT

## Attendees

Present: Amitai Stern, Anandhi Bumstead, Kris Freedain, Jonah Kowell, Andriy Redko, Sam Hermann, Andrew Ross, Bryan Burkholder, Daniel Doubrovkin, Karsten Schnitter, Shubham Gupta, Yakun Li, 

Absent:  Eli Fisher, Austin Lee, Pallavi Priyadarshini

Guests: Peter Zhu (AWS), Vanessa Valderrama (Linux Foundation), Michelle Roth (LF)

## AGENDA

### Prior Meeting Follow-up / Action Items

**February 12th Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/17](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/17) 

* **Action Item: Future of KNN - Core**: (Sam Herman) - [technical-steering/issues/18](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/18)
    - Sam working with KNN maintainers


### New

**March 12th Meeting - Agenda items** - [technical-steering/issues/21](https://github.com/opensearch-project/technical-steering/issues/21) 

**[PROPOSAL] Standardized Process for New Repository Creation** (_guests_
Vanessa Valderrama (Linux Foundation) & Peter Zhu (Amazon)) [.github#296](https://github.com/opensearch-project/.github/issues/296)  - 
* Reviewed proposal 
* Discussion points 
	* TSC own the new repo creation, or, a newly defined special interest group (SIG) 
	* what is everything that needs review
	* should everything be included in request, or does LF have a well-defined process (legal/IP)
	* does LF have non-issues with naming
	* OpenSearch has a high number of repos, propose setting a high bar
	* if repo is to be part of a release, it adds overhead (another reason to have a high bar)
	* LF: this is similar to existing, well-run processes from other projects - require majority vote 
	* archival of non-active repos came up - separate proposal/work 
	* currently Amazon does vulnerabilities/security scans, LF has ability to take this over - separate proposal/work
* Overall outcome - SIG needed, will own, then bring to TSC for final approval 
* Vote: in-favor of creating 'Build/Release' SIG to own this
* **Action Item**: Vanessa Valderrama (Linux Foundation) & Peter Zhu (Amazon) - recommendations for final process and SIG



**Critical number of maintainers (1 active, 1 non-active)** (Andriy) 
* Urgent - needs 2 active maintainer for a release
    * [spring-data-opensearch](https://github.com/opensearch-project/spring-data-opensearch)
    * [openSearch-testcontainers](https://github.com/opensearch-project/openSearch-testcontainers)
* Discussion points
	* there are areas where current maintainers may need to act
	* challenge to identify contributors to ladder up to maintainers
	* consider dropping the number of approvals needed to 1 (instead of 2) for merge
	* challenge to identify contributors to ladder up to maintainers
* **Action Item**: Andriy Redko - take next action / decide to drop to 1 as the active maintainer 

**Feedback from community** (Kris) 
* Would like to understand what TSC is doing - group is OK publishing minutes now 
* How to contact or request feedback 
* **Action Item**: Kris Freedain - publish minutes - creation of mailing-list - update to README with instructions to open an issue or send to mailing-list 